It will be messy.

If I could count all the times I had to change clothes due to drenching them in milk it would be in the thousands. From your breasts constantly leaking to your baby, if they’re anything like Sawyer, just letting milk dribble out of their mouth or spitting up. You will go through many burp rags, nursing bras, and t-shirts. Stock up.

It is time-consuming

With a newborn you will spend endless amounts of time breastfeeding. It is important in establishing a bond with your baby…and they are just hungry all the time. Sawyer’s feedings were an average of 20 minutes every hour. Being a fan of nursing himself to sleep and not a fan of being put down, when he wasn’t breastfeeding he was sleeping in my lap on my nursing pillow. Have a comfy chair, some water and snacks close by, and a tv to binge watch some shows. It will be extremely difficult to keep up with your home during this time, and that is okay!

It can feel isolating

It can drain your energy

It has its own costs

Some gravitate towards breastfeeding since its well…free! While it will sure save you some costs compared to formula, there are still some unexpected costs (especially if you will be pumping) you can run into throughout your breastfeeding journey such as 

-Breast pads for the never ending leaks

-Nipple shields for some relief

-Nipple balm

-Pumping supplies (storage bags, pump bags/parts, bottles, etc.)

You could be on night duty full-time

Now while I was on maternity leave I was on night duty full time by default since my husband had to be well rested for work in the morning. However, when I started going back to work, the fact didn’t change that I am still the sole food source! While you can most certainly pump at night and have your partner feed by bottle, with Sawyer’s sleep windows (about 4-5 hours) it made more sense to me to wake up when we wakes up to breastfeed since I would have to get up regardless to pump. Luckily, my sweet husband started getting up with me to change Sawyer’s diaper in between sides making it a lot easier on me, and preventing any “sleep jealousy” that is so easy to experience.

It is worth it!

Despite these things it is still a beautiful experience with your baby and my favorite time I spend with Sawyer. You get to take a break from the hectic life of parenting to focus on building your bond with your baby and it is wonderful. 